.TH AUTHCOVER 8 1/24/89
.CM 4
.SH NAME
authcover \- authentication cover program
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	authcover.8,v $
.\" Revision 2.4  89/06/16  11:59:58  gm0w
.\" 	Minor style changes.
.\" 	[89/06/16            gm0w]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.3  89/01/28  23:08:21  gm0w
.\" 	Changed from bcsauth to authcover.
.\" 	[89/01/28            gm0w]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  89/01/24  23:39:30  mja
.\" 	Created.
.\" 
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B authcover
program [ arg ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This authentication cover program is used when access to certain
areas of the filesystem is being limited to a restricted
set of commands.
Any command requiring update access to such areas of the filesystem
is indirectly invoked through this cover program
in order to obtain the
necessary access privileges.
.PP
The command operates initially with an effective user ID of
.I root
so that it can set the user and group ID's
to the appropriate values before executing the specified
.I program.
It is executable only by group
.I systems
so that only members of this group may use it
to obtain these privileges, but within this group the command
is not expected to be impregnable with respect to protection
issues.
.PP
The specified
.I program
is run under the login name specified in the
.B AUTHCOVER_USER
environment variable, effectively as if
.IR ru(1)
had been used,
and
this login name
is expected to grant write-access to the
directory specified in the
.B AUTHCOVER_TESTDIR
environment variable.
Only a restricted set of programs may be invoked.
.PP
If no AFS authentication information has yet been recorded for
this login name and the current user and controlling terminal
or it is out of date,
the appropriate password is requested and
used to establish the necessary AFS authentication tokens for
this login name.
These tokens are saved across multiple invocations of
.I authcover
so that a password need not be specified for every
command.
They are stored readable only by the
current user and encrypted with his/her current AFS authentication tokens
in order
to reduce the likelihood that they can be accidentally or intentionally
used by anyone else.
.SH FILES
.nf
.ta \w'/tmp/authcover "<uid><authuser><ttyd>    'u
.IR /tmp/authcover "<uid><authuser><ttyd>	saved authentication info"
.IR /usr/misc/.sdm/lib/authcover.list "	program list"
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bci(1), project(1)
