.TH FILES_HERE 8 11/08/88
.CM 4
.SH NAME
files_here \- generate patterns from filenames
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\" HISTORY
.\" $Log:	files_here.8,v $
.\" Revision 2.3  89/06/16  11:59:52  gm0w
.\" 	Minor style changes.
.\" 	[89/06/16            gm0w]
.\" 
.\" Revision 2.2  88/11/09  00:36:59  gm0w
.\" 	Created.
.\" 	[88/11/08            gm0w]
.\" 
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B files_here
[ options ... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This script generates a list of patterns from a set of filenames.  By
default, it simply lists the contents of the current directory, sorted
alphabetically.  However, this behaviour may be modified by supplying
any of the following options:
.TP
.BR \-p " path"
.I Files-here
will use the colon-separated list of directories in
.I path
instead of the current directory to generate the list of filenames used
to generate patterns.
.TP
.BR \-s " name"
.I Files-here
will look for additional filenames in
.I name
subdirectories of the directories being searched.
.TP
.BR \-D " predicates"
.I Files-here
will add
.I predicates
to the
.IR find (1)
command used to generate the list of subdirectories of the search
directories.  For example,
.B \-D '! \-name .DELETED'
would exclude .DELETED subdirectories from the output patterns.
.TP
.BR \-F " predicates"
.I Files-here
will add
.I predicates
to the
.IR find (1)
command used to generate the list of regular files in the search
directories.  For example,
.B \-D '! \-name *.BAK'
would exclude *.BAK files from the output patterns.
.TP
.BR \-d " pattern"
.I Files-here
will add
.I pattern
to the
.IR sed (1)
command used to process the subdirectory names generated by
.IR find (1).
The
.B \-e
switch to
.I sed
will be added automatically and should not be specified.
For example,
.B \-d 's;$;/;p'
would append '/' to each subdirectory name (ala ls -F).  Note that
since
.I sed
is invoked with
.BR -n ,
you will need to use 'p' in pattern to print the results of the pattern.
.TP
.BR \-f " pattern"
.I Files-here
will add
.I pattern
to the
.IR sed (1)
command used to process the regular file name generated by
.IR find (1).
The
.B \-e
will be added automatically and should not be specified.
.TP
.BR \-r " extention"
.I Files-here
will not output patterns for any filenames with extention
.IR extention .
For example,
.B \-r BAK
would also exclude .BAK files from output patterns.
.TP
.BR \-e " extention"
.I Files-here
will strip
.I extention
from any filenames before generating the output patterns.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
find(1), make(1), sed(1), sort(1), build(1)
